Add initial documentation for the helm-charts-hardened chart (#290)
spiffe/spiffe.io: content/docs/latest/spire-helm-charts-hardened-about/namespaces.md

---
title: Namespaces
short: Namespaces
description: Which namespaces to install the SPIRE Helm charts to
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 210
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/namespaces
---

## Three Namespace Configuration

This is the recommended configuration, it automatically creates and deploys SPIRE across 3 namespaces.

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
global:
  spire:
    recommendations:
      enabled: true
    namespaces:
      create: true
```

> This will create `spire-server` and `spire system` namespaces, label them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create `spire-server` and `spire-system` namespaces, label them
```

---
title: Namespaces
short: Namespaces
description: Which namespaces to use to install the SPIRE Helm charts
kind: spire-helm-charts-hardened-about
weight: 210
aliases:
    - /docs/latest/helm-charts-hardened/namespaces
---

> ## 3 Namespace Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Three Namespace Configuration
```

> This is the recommended configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the recommended configuration, it automatically creates all the necessary namespaces.
```

> This is the recommended configuration, it automatically creates all the necessary namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the recommended configuration, it automatically creates and deploys SPIRE across 3 namespaces.
```

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
global:
  spire:
    recommendations:
      enabled: true
    namespaces:
      create: true
```

> This will create both the spire-server and spire system namespaces, label them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will create both the `spire-server` and `spire system` namespaces, label them
```

> for proper Kubernetes Pod Security Standards operations and deploy the various

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for proper Kubernetes Pod Security Standards operations, and deploy the various
```

services appropriately.

A third namespace is needed to house the Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions

> as provided by the spire-crds chart, as well as any Release information helm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as provided by the [spire-crds](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/spiffe/spire-crds) chart, as well as any Release information helm
```

needs to store to manage the installation. This management namespace is specified
directly to helm when installing/upgrading the release.

## 2 Namespace Configuration

> It is not possible to have the spire helm chart create and manage the labels of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's not possible to have the SPIRE helm chart create and manage the labels of
```

> directly to helm when installing/upgrading the release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directly to helm when installing/upgrading the release. We used `spire-mgmt` as the namespace in the installation section.
```

Reviewer 2: Can you add link to installation section here?

> ## 2 Namespace Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Two Namespace Configuration
```

> the namespace in which it is directly installed into. On some clusters, its necessary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the namespace in which it is directly installed into. On some clusters, it's necessary
```

> the namespace in which it is directly installed into. On some clusters, it's necessary

Reviewer 2: Is this relevant to the 2 namespace deployment?

Author: Its an attempt at describing why you might need a two namespace config over a three namespace config. Maybe it could be worded better?

Reviewer 2: Perhaps, i couldnt fully understand the reasoning.

Author: The problem is multiple sources of truth. Helm wont let you separate the namespace labeling from namespace creation, so have to be done together in the same tool. If some other tool in your Kubernetes cluster needs to create the namespace, then the chart can't in that case.

for the spire-server and/or spire-system namespaces to be created outside the chart
though.

### Manual spire-server, Automatic spire-system

> This is the next most recommended configuration.

Reviewer 2: Why would someone use this over the recommended config?

Author: At least at my site, we have an operator that creates namespaces for us with associated, dedicated ingress controllers. I won't be able to use automatic creation on the spire-server namespace because of that. But spire-system is fine.

> It's not possible to have the SPIRE helm chart create and manage the labels of
> the namespace in which it is directly installed into. On some clusters, it's necessary
> for the spire-server and/or spire-system namespaces to be created outside the chart
> though.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For some use cases, it's necessary to create the `spire-server` and/or `spire-system` namespaces outside the chart. For example if a different team is responsible for creating one of the namespaces. This section will cover deployments where some or all of the namespace can't be managed by the SPIRE helm chart.
```

Create the spire-server namespace as needed on your cluster. For example:
```shell
kubectl create namespace spire-server
kubectl label namespace spire-server pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce=restricted
```

your-values.yaml snippet:
```yaml
global:
  spire:
    recommendations:
      enabled: true
    namespaces:
      system:
        create: true
```

Then run:
```shell
helm upgrade --install -n spire-server spire-crds spire-crds \
  --repo https://spiffe.github.io/helm-charts-hardened/

helm upgrade --install -n spire-server spire spire \
 --repo https://spiffe.github.io/helm-charts-hardened/ \
 -f your-values.yaml
```

> ## 1 Namespace Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Single Namespace Configuration
```

> This is only recommended for non production deployments.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to the quick start section here?

> This is only recommended for non production deployments.

Reviewer 2: looks good
